Create model docs for MIRGE-Com (#345)
illinois-ceesd/mirgecom: doc/model/model.rst

    \def\PR{\operatorname{PR}}
    \)

.. _NS-eqns:

*MIRGE-Com* provides capabilities for solving the compressible Navier-Stokes equations for viscous flows and
the :ref:`Euler equations<Euler-eqns>` equations for inviscid flows of reactive fluid mixtures. *MIRGE-Com*
supports reactive fluid mixtures with a number of mixture species = $N_s$ on unstructured meshes and discretizes

> the equations in a Discontinuous-Galerkin setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the equations in a Discontinuous Galerkin setting.
```

> The formulation presented here is after [Ihme_2014]_ and [Cook_2009]_. The basic conservation equations are as
> follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The formulation presented here follows from [Ihme_2014]_ and [Cook_2009]_. The governing equations, written in conservative form, are summarized as follows:
```

.. math::
    \partial_{t}{\rho} + \partial_{j}{\rho v_j} &= S_\rho \\
    \partial_{t}(\rho{E}) + \partial_j\left(\left\{\rho E + p\right\}v_j + q_j - \tau_{jk}v_k\right) &= S_{\rho E} \\
    \partial_{t}({\rho}{v_i}) + \partial_j\left(\rho v_i v_j + p\delta_{ij} - \tau_{ij}\right) &= S_{\rho v_i} \\
    \partial_{t}(\rho{Y}_{\alpha}) + \partial_j\left(\rho{Y}_{\alpha}v_j + (\mathbf{J}_{\alpha})_j\right) &= S_{\alpha},

with fluid density $\rho$, velocity components $v_i$, momentum density components $\rho v_i$, total energy $\rho E$,
and vector of species mass fractions ${Y}_{\alpha}$. The :ref:`thermodynamic pressure<eos-and-matprop>` of the fluid
is $p$.  ${\tau_{ij}}$ are the components of the :ref:`viscous stress tensor<viscous-stress-tensor>`, $q_i$ are the
components of the total :ref:`heat flux<heat-flux>` vector, and the components of the

> species :ref:`diffusive flux<diffusive-flux>` vector are $(\mathbf{J}_{\alpha})_i)$. Mixtures have $N_s$ components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
species :ref:`diffusive flux<diffusive-flux>` vector are $(\mathbf{J}_{\alpha})_i$. Mixtures have $N_s$ components
```

with $1 \le \alpha \le N_s$. Unless otherwise noted, repeated indices imply summation.

> The equations can be recast in this more compact form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The equations can be recast in a more compact form:
```

.. math::

    \partial_t{\mathbf{Q}} + \partial_j{\mathbf{F}^{I}_j} = \partial_j{\mathbf{F}^{V}_j} + \mathbf{S},

where $\mathbf{Q}$ is the vector of conserved variables, $\mathbf{F}^I$ is the vector of inviscid fluxes,

> $\mathbf{F}^V$ is the vector of viscous fluxes, and the vector of sources for each scalar equation  is $S$,
> with the components of each following directly from above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$\mathbf{F}^V$ is the vector of viscous fluxes, and the vector of sources for each scalar equation  is $\mathbf{S}$.
The components of each vector follow directly from above:
```

.. math::

   \mathbf{Q} = \begin{bmatrix}\rho\\\rho{E}\\\rho{v}_{i}\\\rho{Y}_{\alpha}\end{bmatrix},
   ~\mathbf{F}^{I}_{j} = \begin{bmatrix}\rho{v}_{j}\\\left(\rho{E}+p\right){v}_{j}\\
   \left(\rho{v}_{j}{v}_{i}+p\delta_{ij}\right)\\\rho{Y}_{\alpha}{v}_{j}\end{bmatrix},
   ~\mathbf{F}^V_{j} = \begin{bmatrix}0\\\left(\tau_{jk}{v}_{k}-{q}_{j}\right)\\{\tau}_{ij}\\
   -(\mathbf{J}_{\alpha})_{j}\end{bmatrix},
   ~\mathbf{S} = \begin{bmatrix}0\\E^{\mathtt{chem}}\\0\\W^{\mathtt{chem}}_{\alpha}\end{bmatrix}

where ${E}^{\mathtt{chem}}$, and $W^{\mathtt{chem}}_{\alpha}$, are the chemical reaction source terms
in the energy and species conservation equations, respectively.  See :ref:`Chemistry` for more details
on chemical reaction source terms, and :ref:`here<disc-strat>` for details on the 2nd order terms
in the viscous RHS.

.. _Euler-eqns:

> The Euler flow equations for inviscid flows are recovered from the Navier-Stokes system above when the
> viscous fluxes vanish, that is when $\mathbf{F}^V=0$. *MIRGE-Com* also provides an Euler operator and
> utilities for solving inviscid flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Euler equations for inviscid flows are recovered from the Navier-Stokes system above when the viscous fluxes vanish. That is, when $\mathbf{F}^V=0$, we are left with a system of nonlinear equations for a completely inviscid fluid. *MIRGE-Com* provides an Euler operator, with associated utilities functions, for solving flows of this type.
```

.. _viscous-stress-tensor:

Viscous stress tensor
---------------------
The viscous stress tensor has components:

.. math::
    \tau_{ij} = \mu \left(\partial_j{v_i} + \partial_i{v_j}\right)
    +(\mu_B - \frac{2}{3}\mu)\partial_k{v_k}\delta_{ij}

with fluid velocity components ${v}_{i}$, the first coefficient of fluid
viscosity $\mu$, and bulk viscosity $\mu_B$.

.. _diffusive-flux:

Diffusive flux
--------------
The species diffusive fluxes are given by:

.. math::
   \mathbf{J}_{\alpha} = -\rho{d}_{(\alpha)}\nabla{Y}_{\alpha},

with gas density $\rho$, species diffusivities ${d}_{\alpha}$, and
species mass fractions ${Y}_{\alpha}$.  The parens $(\alpha)$ indicate no sum
over repeated indices is to be performed.

.. _heat-flux:

Heat flux
---------

The total heat flux $\mathbf{q}$ is calculated as the sum of the
conductive and diffusive components, $\mathbf{q}_{c}$ and $\mathbf{q}_{d}$,
respectively:

.. math::
   \mathbf{q} = \mathbf{q}_c + \mathbf{q}_d

Conductive heat flux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The conductive heat flux vector is defined as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conductive heat flux vector is defined directly from Fourier's law of thermal conduction:
```

Material properties including the first coefficient of viscosity, $\mu$, bulk viscosity $\mu_B$,
thermal conductivity $\kappa$, and species diffusivities ${d}_{\alpha}$ depend on the state of
the fluid $\mathbf{Q}$, in general, and are provided by transport models.  Transport models provided
by *MIRGE-Com* ~~are~~ (will be) documented in forthcoming the transport module.

.. _disc-strat:

Discretization Strategy
-----------------------

How to discretize the conservation equations with DG, including how to handle the required fluxes,
particularly in the viscous setting, is a current topic of research and internal discussion.  The
following references are useful:

* "The DG Book:" Nodal Discontinuous Galerkin Methods, [Hesthaven_2008]_
* The BR1 algorithm for discretization of Navier-Stokes, [Bassi_1997]_
* NS with reactions, [Ihme_2014]_, and [Cook_2009]_
* The BR2 algorithm, [Bassi_2000]_
* [Ayuso_2009]_

*MIRGE-Com* currently employs a strategy akin to the BR1 algorithm outlined in [Bassi_1997]_, but
with thermal terms and chemical reaction sources as outlined in [Ihme_2014]_ and [Cook_2009]_.

> 

Reviewer: Would it be worth quickly summarizing the DG strategy as we've done [here](https://notes.tiker.net/vFDwHwNhQTyTZYTFMI-7lw?both)? I realize there's still work to be done on the boundary conditions side of things, but I think having a description of the DG problem is very useful to see. What do you think?

Author: Love the idea.  Should we start a discretization page and just link it here?

Author: I also think it should be extended to include the thermal pieces, chemistry, and mixtures.  I guess that could come later though.

Author: (e0c424f)

   \frac{2}{3}\mu\right)\partial_k{v}_k\delta_{ij}\right]

Energy equation
"""""""""""""""
The 2nd order terms in the energy equation RHS have convective, conductive, and
diffusive terms as follows:

- Convective part

.. math::
   \partial_j \tau_{jk} {v}_k = \left[\partial_j\left(\mu\partial_k{v}_j{v}_k\right) +
   \partial_j\left(\mu\partial_j{v}^2_k\right) + \partial_j\left(\mu_{B} -
   \frac{2}{3}\mu\right)\partial_m{v}_m\delta_{jk}{v}_k\right]
   

- Conductive part

The conductive heat part of the RHS is:

.. math::
   \partial_j{(q_{c})_j} = \partial_j\kappa\partial_j{T},

where $T$ is the fluid temperature.

- Diffusive part

The diffusive heat part of the RHS is:

.. math::
   \partial_j{(q_{d})_j} = \partial_j\left(\rho{h}_{\alpha}{d}_{(\alpha)}\partial_j{Y}_{\alpha}\right)
   
with fluid density $\rho$, species diffusivity ${d}_{(\alpha)}$, and species mass fractions
${Y}_{\alpha}$. 

Species equation
""""""""""""""""
The species diffusive transport RHS is:

.. math::
   \partial_j{(J_{\alpha})_j} = \partial_j\left(\rho{d}_{(\alpha)}\partial_j{Y}_{\alpha}\right),

with fluid density $\rho$, species diffusivity ${d}_{(\alpha)}$, and species mass fractions

> ${Y}_{\alpha}$. 

Reviewer: I think all of this is more or less just restating what you've already defined above in sections 1.1--1.4 (except it's written in summation notation). Maybe you can write out the component-wise form next to the vector-calculus form (side-by-side) and use the newly created space to add a quick summary of the DG strategy?

Author: This entire section on the non-linear terms can be omitted, actually.  I meant for this to be an aid for our discussion about either using the diffusion operator in several different RHS's or potentially extending for tensor diffusivity and doing all the viscous terms with the diffusion operator.

Author: I left the section in for now (I just don't want to lose the text), and added a placeholder for the discretization doc. (e0c424f)
